62-308.100 Synthetic Turf.
(1) Scope.
(a) “Synthetic turf” is defined by s. 125.572(1), F.S.
(b) Pursuant to s. 125.572, F.S., this rule establishes minimum standards for the installation of synthetic turf on single-family residential properties of 1 acre or less in size. Pursuant to s. 125.572(3), F.S., local governments may not regulate synthetic turf in a manner inconsistent with these minimum standards. This rule does not establish nor require any new department-issued permit or authorization for the installation of synthetic turf,
(c) These standards do not modify the property rights of any entity, including any fee simple interests or any less-than-fee interests, such as easements or rights of way.
(2) Material type. 
(a) Synthetic turf, including backing material and infill, must not contain heavy metals or intentionally added per- and polyfluoroalkyl substances.
(b) Synthetic turf, including backing materials and infill, must be disposable under normal conditions at any Chapter 62-701, F.A.C., Florida permitted landfill.
(c) Infill material, if used, shall only be clean silica sand, rock, shell, or other natural material, except that coated silica sand may be used provided that any coating used is non-toxic and meets the requirements described in paragraphs (2)(a) and (2)(b). Rubber or any other synthetic infill material is allowed only within the footprint of playground equipment and must also meet the requirements described in paragraphs (2)(a) and (2)(b). Installation shall be designed to prevent washing away of any infill material off the residential property. 
(d) Subgrade shall be composed of natural materials, such as crushed rock, or crushed concrete that meets the permeability requirements of this rule. Subgrade materials shall be washed prior to installation to prevent fines from binding.
(3) Color. Green synthetic turf shall be allowed.
(4) Permeability.
(a) Synthetic turf must be permeable and affixed to permeable backing with a pervious subgrade. A local government may establish a quantifiable standard of a maximum of 10 inches per hour for all layers.
(b) Synthetic turf must be installed over a subgrade prepared for positive drainage and evenly graded porous material.
(c) Soil beneath installed subgrade shall not be compacted to the extent that it adversely impacts percolation through the soil. 
(5) Stormwater management. 
(a) Installation of synthetic turf must be designed and installed to prevent pooling or an increase in the stormwater runoff volume, direction, or rates to adjacent properties and, where possible, runoff shall be directed to on-site pervious areas. 
(b) Installation of synthetic turf must not alter the permitted stormwater management system as designed and shall not be installed within a swale, ditch, stormwater pond, or a stormwater pond’s littoral zone.
(6) Potable water conservation.
(a) In-ground irrigation systems cannot be used to irrigate synthetic turf areas. 
(b) If any in-ground system is already installed, a local government may require that irrigation heads be removed and pipe capped.
(7) Water quality. 
(a) Synthetic turf shall not cause or contribute to violations of state water quality standards.
(b) Buffer zones around natural or man-made waterbodies may be established to protect against erosion and reduce pollution provided that such buffer for synthetic turf is no greater or restrictive than what is applicable to natural turf. Where no buffer zone has been established, synthetic turf shall be installed no closer than 10 feet from a natural or man-made waterbody as measured from the applicable ordinary or mean high water line except where there is a physical barrier between the synthetic turf and the waterbody (such as, but not limited to, a seawall or bulkhead).  
(8) Proximity to trees and other vegetation. 
(a) Installation of synthetic turf cannot compromise the health of nearby trees, including damage to tree roots, other than those identified as a noxious weed as defined in Chapter 581, F.S.
(b) Synthetic turf shall not be installed inside tree drip lines, whether on the property or adjacent properties, unless the tree is a noxious weed as defined by Chapter 581, F.S., or unless a certified arborist, using site specific information and best professional judgment, certifies that installation within that drip line would not be harmful to the tree. 
(9) Other factors impacting environmental conditions of adjacent properties.
(a) Synthetic turf shall be installed according to manufacturer’s specifications.
(b) Synthetic turf shall be anchored at all edges and seams that, at a minimum, will withstand the effects of wind or flooding.
(c) If installed, synthetic turf must provide for access to the septic tank for routine pumpout.
(d) If installed, synthetic turf shall be installed landward of any dune system and shall not be used to replace any existing dune vegetation. 
Rulemaking Authority 125.572 FS. Law Implemented 125.572 FS. History–New 5-19-26.

Microsoft Office Word Document